glossary: add some terms to glossary (#14298)
pingcap/docs: glossary.md

### Batch Create Table

Batch Create Table is a feature introduced in TiDB v6.0.0. This feature is enabled by default. When restoring data with a large number of tables (nearly 50000) using BR (Backup & Restore), the feature can greatly speed up the restore process by creating tables in batches. For more information, see [Batch Create Table](/br/br-batch-create-table.md).

### Bucket

A [Region](#regionpeerraft-group) is logically divided into several small ranges called bucket. TiKV collects query statistics by buckets and reports the bucket status to PD. For more information, see the [Bucket design doc](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/text/0082-dynamic-size-region.md#bucket).

## C

### Cached Table

With the cached table feature, TiDB loads the data of an entire table into the memory of the TiDB server, and TiDB directly gets the table data from the memory without accessing TiKV, which improves the read performance.

### Cluster

> A cluster is a group of nodes that work together to provide services. It typically consists of different types of nodes. For example, a TiDB cluster usually consists of TiDB nodes, TiKV nodes, and PD nodes, and a DM cluster usually consists of DM Master nodes and DM Worker nodes.

Reviewer: I’m not sure if using ‘a cluster of TiKV’ and ‘a cluster of PD nodes’ might confuse users, as we typically refer to a TiDB cluster as consisting of TiDB nodes, TiKV nodes, and PD nodes. To avoid confusion, we could simply mention them as TiDB nodes, TiKV nodes, and PD nodes here.

> A cluster is a group of nodes that work together to provide services. It typically consists of different types of nodes. For example, a TiDB cluster usually consists of TiDB nodes, TiKV nodes, and PD nodes, and a DM cluster usually consists of DM Master nodes and DM Worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cluster is a group of nodes that work together to provide services. By using clusters in a distributed system, TiDB achieves higher availability and greater scalability compared to a single-node setup.

In the distributed architecture of TiDB:
- TiDB nodes provide a scalable SQL layer for client interactions.
- PD nodes provide a resilient metadata layer for TiDB.
- TiKV nodes, using the Raft consensus protocol, provide highly available, scalable, and resilient storage for TiDB.

For more information, see [TiDB Architecture](/tidb-architecture.md).
```

### Batch Create Table

> The Batch Create Table feature greatly speeds up the creation of multiple tables at a time by creating tables in batches. For example, when restoring thousands of tables using the  Backup & Restore (BR) tool, this feature helps reduce the overall recovery time. For more information, see [Batch Create Table](/br/br-batch-create-table.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Batch Create Table feature greatly speeds up the creation of multiple tables at a time by creating tables in batches. For example, when restoring thousands of tables using the [Backup & Restore (BR) ](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) tool, this feature helps reduce the overall recovery time. For more information, see [Batch Create Table](/br/br-batch-create-table.md).
```

### Bucket

A [Region](#regionpeerraft-group) is logically divided into several small ranges called bucket. TiKV collects query statistics by buckets and reports the bucket status to PD. For more information, see the [Bucket design doc](https://github.com/tikv/rfcs/blob/master/text/0082-dynamic-size-region.md#bucket).

## C

### Cached Table

With the cached table feature, TiDB loads the data of an entire table into the memory of the TiDB server, and TiDB directly gets the table data from the memory without accessing TiKV, which improves the read performance.

### Cluster

A cluster is a group of nodes that work together to provide services. By using clusters in a distributed system, TiDB achieves higher availability and greater scalability compared to a single-node setup.

> In the distributed architecture of TiDB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the distributed architecture of TiDB:

```

- TiDB nodes provide a scalable SQL layer for client interactions.
- PD nodes provide a resilient metadata layer for TiDB.

> - TiKV nodes, using the Raft consensus protocol, provide highly available, scalable, and resilient storage for TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiKV nodes, using the Raft protocol, provide highly available, scalable, and resilient storage for TiDB.
```

## D

### Dumpling

Dumpling is a data export tool for exporting data stored in TiDB/MySQL as SQL or CSV data files and can be used to make a logical full backup or export. Dumpling also supports exporting data to Amazon S3.

For details, see [Use Dumpling to Export Data](/dumpling-overview.md).

### Dynamic Pruning

Dynamic pruning mode is one of the modes that TiDB accesses partitioned tables. In dynamic pruning mode, each operator supports direct access to multiple partitions. Therefore, TiDB no longer uses Union. Omitting the Union operation can improve the execution efficiency and avoid the problem of Union concurrent execution.

## E

### Expression index

The expression index is a type of special index that can be created on an expression. Once an expression index is created, TiDB can use the index for the expression-based query, which significantly improves the query performance.

For details, see [CREATE INDEX - Expression index](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index).

## G

### GC (Garbage Collection)

> Garbage collection (GC) is the memory resource management mechanism in TiDB. When old data in dynamic memory is no longer needed, it is cleaned up to free up memory.

Author: We can link to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/garbage-collection-configuration, which lists sysvars that are more relevant to users.

For details, see [GC Overview](/garbage-collection-overview.md).

## H

### Hotspot

> Hotspot refers to the phenomenon where the read and write workload of TiKV is concentrated on one or several regions or nodes, which might cause performance bottlenecks and prevent optimal performance. To solve hotspot issues, refer to [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hotspot refers to the phenomenon where the read and/or write workload of TiKV is concentrated on one or several regions or nodes, which might cause performance bottlenecks and prevent optimal performance. To solve hotspot issues, refer to [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).
```

Might also be good to call regions "data regions" instead to make it clear we're not talking about geographical regions (e.g [this](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regions_az/)  )

Author: That's a good point. While we don't often refer to both terms simultaneously in our documentation, it can be confusing when we do. Currently, we capitalize "Region" for TiDB-specific regions and use lowercase "region" for cloud service provider regions. Using "data region" would enhance accuracy and improve clarity. "data region" would make it more accurate and easier to follow. I'll see if we can gradually transition to "data region" in other docs.

### HTAP

> HTAP stands for "Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing". TiDB HTAP can meet the growing demand for managing massive data, reduce operational risk costs, seamlessly integrate with existing big data tech stacks, and realize real-time monetization of data assets. In TiDB, TiKV, the row storage engine for online transaction processing coexists with TiFlash, the column storage engine for real-time analysis scenarios. Data is automatically replicated between the two storage engines to maintain strong consistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTAP stands for "Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing". This combines online transaction processing (OLTP) workloads with online analytical processing (OLAP) on the same platform. One of the features that this brings is real time analytics. This is done by combining row based data in TiKV and columnar data in TiFlash that is kept in sync by replicating data in between the two storage engines in a way that can maintain strong consistency.
```

For details, see [Use Dumpling to Export Data](/dumpling-overview.md).

### Dynamic Pruning

Dynamic pruning mode is one of the modes that TiDB accesses partitioned tables. In dynamic pruning mode, each operator supports direct access to multiple partitions. Therefore, TiDB no longer uses Union. Omitting the Union operation can improve the execution efficiency and avoid the problem of Union concurrent execution.

## E

### Expression index

The expression index is a type of special index that can be created on an expression. Once an expression index is created, TiDB can use the index for the expression-based query, which significantly improves the query performance.

For details, see [CREATE INDEX - Expression index](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index).

## G

### GC (Garbage Collection)

Garbage collection (GC) is the memory resource management mechanism in TiDB. When old data in dynamic memory is no longer needed, it is cleaned up to free up memory.

> For details, see [GC Overview](/garbage-collection-overview.md).

Author: ```suggestion
For details, see [GC Overview](/garbage-collection-overview.md) and [GC Configuration](/garbage-collection-configuration.md).
```

### Common Table Expression (CTE)

A Common Table Expression (CTE) enables you to define a temporary result set that can be referred to multiple times within a SQL statement using the [`WITH`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-with.md) clause, which improves the statement readability and execution efficiency. For more information, see [Common Table Expression](/develop/dev-guide-use-common-table-expression.md).

### Continuous Profiling

> Introduced in TiDB 5.3.0, Continuous Profiling is a way to observe resource overhead at the system call level. With the support of Continuous Profiling, TiDB provides performance insight as clear as directly looking into the database source code, and helps R&D and operation and maintenance personnel to locate the root cause of performance problems using a flame graph. For more information, see [TiDB Dashboard Instance Profiling - Continuous Profiling](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md).

Reviewer 3: There are also too many "ands" in the second sentence, I would suggest rewriting as:

> With the support of Continuous Profiling, TiDB provides fine-grained insights into performance problems helping operations teams locate the root cause of performance problems using a flame graph.

> Introduced in TiDB 5.3.0, Continuous Profiling is a way to observe resource overhead at the system call level. With the support of Continuous Profiling, TiDB provides performance insight as clear as directly looking into the database source code, and helps R&D and operation and maintenance personnel to locate the root cause of performance problems using a flame graph. For more information, see [TiDB Dashboard Instance Profiling - Continuous Profiling](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Continuous Profiling is a way to observe resource overhead at the system call level. With the support of Continuous Profiling, TiDB provides fine-grained insights into performance issues, helping operations teams identify the root cause using a flame graph. For more information, see [TiDB Dashboard Instance Profiling - Continuous Profiling](/dashboard/continuous-profiling.md).
```

Dynamic pruning mode is one of the modes that TiDB accesses partitioned tables. In dynamic pruning mode, each operator supports direct access to multiple partitions. Therefore, TiDB no longer uses Union. Omitting the Union operation can improve the execution efficiency and avoid the problem of Union concurrent execution.

## E

### Expression index

> The expression index is a type of special index that can be created on an expression. Once an expression index is created, TiDB can use the index for the expression-based query, which significantly improves the query performance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The expression index is a special type of index created on an expression. Once an expression index is created, TiDB can use this index for expression-based queries, significantly improving query performance.
```

### Lock View

The Lock View feature is used to provide more information about lock conflicts and lock waits in pessimistic locking, making it convenient for DBAs to observe transaction locking situations and troubleshoot deadlock issues.

For details, see system table documentation: [`TIDB_TRX`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-trx.md), [`DATA_LOCK_WAITS`](/information-schema/information-schema-data-lock-waits.md), and [`DEADLOCKS`](/information-schema/information-schema-deadlocks.md).
## M

### MPP

Starting from v5.0, TiDB introduces Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) architecture through TiFlash nodes, which shares the execution workloads of large join queries among TiFlash nodes. When the MPP mode is enabled, TiDB, based on cost, determines whether to use the MPP framework to perform the calculation. In the MPP mode, the join keys are redistributed through the Exchange operation while being calculated, which distributes the calculation pressure to each TiFlash node and speeds up the calculation. For more information, see [Use TiFlash MPP Mode](/tiflash/use-tiflash-mpp-mode.md).

### Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)

> MVCC is a concurrency control mechanism in TiDB. It processes the memory read by transactions to achieve concurrent access to TiDB, thereby avoiding blocking caused by conflicts between concurrent reads and writes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MVCC is a concurrency control mechanism in TiDB and other databases. It processes the memory read by transactions to achieve concurrent access to TiDB, thereby avoiding blocking caused by conflicts between concurrent reads and writes.
```

Maybe link to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiversion_concurrency_control ?

## O

### Old value

The "original value" in the incremental change log output by TiCDC. You can specify whether the incremental change log output by TiCDC contains the "original value".

> ### Online transactional processing (OLTP)

Reviewer 2: Maybe add OLAP as well?

Author: I added one entry for OLAP ([here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/14298/files#r1426100902)). PTAL

## M

### MPP

Starting from v5.0, TiDB introduces Massively Parallel Processing (MPP) architecture through TiFlash nodes, which shares the execution workloads of large join queries among TiFlash nodes. When the MPP mode is enabled, TiDB, based on cost, determines whether to use the MPP framework to perform the calculation. In the MPP mode, the join keys are redistributed through the Exchange operation while being calculated, which distributes the calculation pressure to each TiFlash node and speeds up the calculation. For more information, see [Use TiFlash MPP Mode](/tiflash/use-tiflash-mpp-mode.md).

### Multi-version concurrency control (MVCC)

[MVCC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiversion_concurrency_control) is a concurrency control mechanism in TiDB and other databases. It processes the memory read by transactions to achieve concurrent access to TiDB, thereby avoiding blocking caused by conflicts between concurrent reads and writes.

## O

### Old value

The "original value" in the incremental change log output by TiCDC. You can specify whether the incremental change log output by TiCDC contains the "original value".

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Online analytical processing (OLAP)

Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) refers to the use of computer systems to perform multidimensional analysis of data for business intelligence and decision-making purposes.

```

## H

### Hotspot

Hotspot refers to the phenomenon where the read and/or write workloads of TiKV are concentrated on one or several regions or nodes, which might cause performance bottlenecks and prevent optimal performance. To solve hotspot issues, see [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).

### Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP)

> Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) is a database feature that enables both OLTP (Online Transactional Processing) and OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) workloads within the same database. For TiDB, the HTAP feature is provided by using TiKV for row storage and TiFlash for columnar storage. For more information, see [Quick Start Guide for TiDB HTAP](/quick-start-with-htap.md) and [Explore HTAP](/explore-htap.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing (HTAP) is a database feature that enables both OLTP (Online Transactional Processing) and OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) workloads within the same database. For TiDB, the HTAP feature is provided by using TiKV for row storage and TiFlash for columnar storage. For more information, see [Quick Start with TiDB HTAP](/quick-start-with-htap.md) and [Explore HTAP](/explore-htap.md).
```

## H

### Hotspot

> Hotspot refers to the phenomenon where the read and/or write workloads of TiKV are concentrated on one or several regions or nodes, which might cause performance bottlenecks and prevent optimal performance. To solve hotspot issues, see [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hotspot refers to a situation where the read and write workloads in TiKV are concentrated on one or a few Regions or nodes. This can lead to performance bottlenecks, preventing optimal system performance. To solve hotspot issues, see [Troubleshoot Hotspot Issues](/troubleshoot-hot-spot-issues.md).
```

- `PromoteLearner`: Promotes a specified learner to a voting member
- `SplitRegion`: Splits a specified Region into two

### Optimistic transaction

Optimistic transactions are transactions that use optimistic concurrency control and generally do not cause conflicts in concurrent environments. After enabling optimistic transactions, TiDB only checks for conflicts when the transaction is finally committed. The optimistic transaction mode is suitable for concurrent scenarios with more reads and fewer writes, which can improve the performance of TiDB.

> Starting from v3.0.8, TiDB clusters default to pessimistic transaction mode. However, if a cluster created before v3.0.7 is upgraded to v3.0.8 or later, the default transaction mode will not be changed; only newly created clusters will default to pessimistic transaction mode. For details, refer to [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I don't think we need to have detail like this in the docs for current versions that goes back to v4.x or earlier.

## P

### Partitioning

> [Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) refers to physically dividing a table into smaller table partitions, which can be done by partition methods such as RANGE, LIST, HASH, and KEY partitioning. These smaller partitions are called partitioned table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) refers to physically dividing a table into smaller table partitions, which can be done by partition methods such as RANGE, LIST, HASH and KEY partitioning.
```

cc @mjonss

### PD Control (pd-ctl)

> PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool for PD, used to obtain cluster status information and modify the cluster. For details, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).

Reviewer 2: PD Control should in almost all cases be used via TiUP as that provides updating, downloading, etc. Not sure this entry reflects that well enough.

```
$ tiup ctl:v7.5.0 pd tso 0
Starting component `ctl`: /home/dvaneeden/.tiup/components/ctl/v7.5.0/ctl pd tso 0
system:  1970-01-01 01:00:00 +0100 CET
logic:   0
```

```suggestion
PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool to interface with the placement driver (PD) of the cluster. This can be used to obtain cluster status information, configuration and modify the cluster. For details, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).
```

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) is a standardized way of accessing a directory with information. It is commonly used for account and user data management. TiDB supports LDAP via [LDAP authentication plugins](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md#authentication-plugin-status).

### Lock View

> The Lock View feature is used to provide more information about lock conflicts and lock waits in pessimistic locking, making it convenient for DBAs to observe transaction locking situations and troubleshoot deadlock issues.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Lock View feature provides more information about lock conflicts and lock waits in pessimistic locking, making it convenient for DBAs to observe transaction locking situations and troubleshoot deadlock issues.
```

Restore is the reverse of the backup operation. It is the process of bringing back the system to an earlier state by retrieving data from a prepared backup.

### RocksDB

> RocksDB is an LSM-tree structured engine that provides key-value storage and read-write functionality. It was developed by Facebook based on LevelDB. RocksDB is the core storage engine of TiKV, used for storing Raft logs and user data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RocksDB is an LSM-tree structured engine that provides key-value storage and read-write functionality. It was developed by Facebook and is based on LevelDB. RocksDB is the core storage engine of TiKV.
```

Storing Raft logs can also be done in "Raft Engine" isn't it?

Maybe link to https://rocksdb.org/ ?

- `PromoteLearner`: Promotes a specified learner to a voting member
- `SplitRegion`: Splits a specified Region into two

### Optimistic transaction

Optimistic transactions are transactions that use optimistic concurrency control and generally do not cause conflicts in concurrent environments. After enabling optimistic transactions, TiDB only checks for conflicts when the transaction is finally committed. The optimistic transaction mode is suitable for concurrent scenarios with more reads and fewer writes, which can improve the performance of TiDB.

For more information, see [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md).

## P

### Partitioning

[Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) refers to physically dividing a table into smaller table partitions, which can be done by partition methods such as RANGE, LIST, HASH, and KEY partitioning.

### PD Control (pd-ctl)

PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool to interface with the placement driver (PD) of the cluster. You can use it to obtain cluster status information and modify the cluster. For more information, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).

> ### pending/down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pending/Down
```

"Pending" and "down" are two special states of a peer. Pending indicates that the Raft log of followers or learners is vastly different from that of leader. Followers in pending cannot be elected as leader. "Down" refers to a state that a peer ceases to respond to leader for a long time, which usually means the corresponding node is down or isolated from the network.

### Placement Driver (PD)

Placement Driver (PD) is a core component in the [TiDB Architecture](/tidb-architecture.md#placement-driver-pd-server) responsible for storing metadata, assigning [Timestamp Oracle (TSO)](/tso.md) for transaction timestamps, orchestrating data placement on TiKV, and running [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-overview.md). For more information, see [TiDB Scheduling](/tidb-scheduling.md).

### Placement Rules

> Placement rules are used to configure the placement of data in a TiKV cluster through the SQL interface. With this feature, you can specify the deployment of tables and partitions to different regions, data centers, cabinets, and hosts. Use cases include optimizing data availability strategies at low cost, ensuring that local data replicas are available for local stale reads, and complying with local data compliance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Placement rules are used to configure the placement of data in a TiKV cluster. With this feature, you can specify the deployment of tables and partitions to different regions, data centers, cabinets, and hosts. Use cases include optimizing data availability strategies at low cost, ensuring that local data replicas are available for local stale reads, and complying with local data compliance requirements.
```

- `PromoteLearner`: Promotes a specified learner to a voting member
- `SplitRegion`: Splits a specified Region into two

### Optimistic transaction

> Optimistic transactions are transactions that use optimistic concurrency control and generally do not cause conflicts in concurrent environments. After enabling optimistic transactions, TiDB only checks for conflicts when the transaction is finally committed. The optimistic transaction mode is suitable for concurrent scenarios with more reads and fewer writes, which can improve the performance of TiDB.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Optimistic transactions are transactions that use optimistic concurrency control and generally do not cause conflicts in concurrent environments. After enabling optimistic transactions, TiDB checks for conflicts only when the transaction is finally committed. The optimistic transaction mode is suitable for read-heavy and write-light concurrent scenarios, which can improve the performance of TiDB.
```

For more information, see [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md).

## P

### Partitioning

[Partitioning](/partitioned-table.md) refers to physically dividing a table into smaller table partitions, which can be done by partition methods such as RANGE, LIST, HASH, and KEY partitioning.

### PD Control (pd-ctl)

> PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool to interface with the placement driver (PD) of the cluster. You can use it to obtain cluster status information and modify the cluster. For more information, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PD Control (pd-ctl) is a command-line tool used to interact with the Placement Driver (PD) in the TiDB cluster. You can use it to obtain cluster status information and modify the cluster configuration. For more information, see [PD Control User Guide](/pd-control.md).
```

- `hot-region-scheduler`: Balances the distribution of hot Regions
- `evict-leader-{store-id}`: Evicts all leaders of a node (often used for rolling upgrades)

### Security Enhanced Mode (SEM)

> The Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) is used for finer-grained permission control of TiDB administrators. SEM is inspired by the design of systems such as [Security-Enhanced Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux). It reduces the abilities of users with the MySQL `SUPER` privilege and instead requires `RESTRICTED` fine-grained privileges to be granted as a replacement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) is used for finer-grained permission control of TiDB administrators. SEM is inspired by the design of systems such as [Security-Enhanced Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux). It reduces the abilities of users with the `SUPER` privilege and instead requires `RESTRICTED` fine-grained privileges to be granted as a replacement.
```

For details, see [Stale Read](/stale-read.md).

### Store

A store refers to the storage node in the TiKV cluster (an instance of `tikv-server`). Each store has a corresponding TiKV instance.

## T

### Temporary table

Temporary tables solve the issue of temporarily storing the intermediate results of an application, which frees you from frequently creating and dropping tables. You can store the intermediate calculation data in temporary tables. When the intermediate data is no longer needed, TiDB automatically cleans up and recycles the temporary tables. This avoids user applications being too complicated, reduces table management overhead, and improves performance.

For details, see [Temporary Tables](/temporary-tables.md).

### TiCDC

[TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool for incrementally replicating data in TiDB. It pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV and parses them into ordered row-level change data, which it then outputs to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

> ### TiDB Data Migration (DM)

Reviewer 2: I think people might be looking for DM under "D" instead of under "T".

```suggestion
### Data Migration (DM)
```

> [TiDB Data Migration](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/tree/master/dm) (DM) is a convenient data migration tool that supports full data migration and incremental data replication from databases compatible with the MySQL protocol (MySQL, MariaDB, Aurora MySQL) to TiDB. Using DM helps simplify the data migration process and reduce operational costs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiDB Data Migration](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/tree/master/dm) (DM) is a data migration tool that supports full data migration and incremental data replication from databases compatible with the MySQL protocol (MySQL, MariaDB, Aurora MySQL) to TiDB.
```

For more information about the concepts and terms of DM, see [TiDB Data Migration Glossary](/dm/dm-glossary.md).

> ### TiDB Lightning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Lightning
```

Not sure if we should call it `TiDB Lightning` or `Lightning`...

Author: According to marketing guidelines (updated years ago), the product name is specifically `TiDB Lightning`. The same is true for DM. I'm not sure if there's any change to that, but I'll look into it.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with both. We could choose one of the two versions or add both "Lightning" and "TiDB Lightning" and then for the "Lightning" entry have a simple "See TiDB Lightning". 

Personally I think having a single entry would be best. I don't have a strong preference about which one it should be.

> [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) is a tool for importing TB-level data from static files into TiDB clusters. It is commonly used for the initial data import into TiDB clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) is a tool for importing Terabyte-level data from static files into TiDB clusters. It is commonly used for the initial data import into TiDB clusters.
```

For more information on the concepts and terminology of TiDB Lightning, see [TiDB Lightning Glossary](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md).

### TiFlash

[TiFlash](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md) is a key component of TiDB's HTAP architecture. It is a columnar extension of TiKV that provides both strong consistency and good isolation. Columnar replicas are asynchronously replicated through the Raft Learner protocol. When reading, the replicas use the Raft consensus index along with MVCC to achieve Snapshot Isolation consistency level. This architecture effectively solves the isolation and synchronization issues in HTAP scenarios.

### TiUP

> [TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md) is a package management tool introduced in TiDB v4.0. It is used for deploying, upgrading, and managing TiDB clusters, as well as managing various components within the TiDB ecosystem including TiDB, PD, and TiKV. With TiUP, you can easily run any component within TiDB by executing just one command, greatly simplifying the management process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md) is a management tool used for deploying, upgrading, and managing TiDB clusters, as well as managing various components within the TiDB ecosystem including TiDB, PD, and TiKV. With TiUP, you can easily run any component within TiDB by executing just one command, greatly simplifying the management process.
```

Placement Driver (PD) is a core component in the [TiDB Architecture](/tidb-architecture.md#placement-driver-pd-server) responsible for storing metadata, assigning [Timestamp Oracle (TSO)](/tso.md) for transaction timestamps, orchestrating data placement on TiKV, and running [TiDB Dashboard](/dashboard/dashboard-overview.md). For more information, see [TiDB Scheduling](/tidb-scheduling.md).

### Placement Rules

> Placement rules are used to configure the placement of data in a TiKV cluster. With this feature, you can specify the deployment of tables and partitions to different regions, data centers, cabinets, and hosts. Use cases include optimizing data availability strategies at low cost, ensuring that local data replicas are available for local stale reads, and complying with local data compliance requirements.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Placement rules are used to configure the placement of data in a TiKV cluster. With this feature, you can specify the deployment of tables and partitions to different regions, data centers, cabinets, or hosts. Use cases include optimizing data availability strategies at low cost, ensuring that local data replicas are available for local stale reads, and complying with local data compliance requirements.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- `hot-region-scheduler`: Balances the distribution of hot Regions
- `evict-leader-{store-id}`: Evicts all leaders of a node (often used for rolling upgrades)

### Security Enhanced Mode (SEM)

The Security Enhanced Mode (SEM) is used for finer-grained permission control of TiDB administrators. Inspired by systems such as [Security-Enhanced Linux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux), SEM reduces the abilities of users with the `SUPER` privilege and instead requires `RESTRICTED` fine-grained privileges, which must be explicitly granted to control specific administrative actions.

For more information, see [System Variables documentation - `tidb_enable_enhanced_security`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_enhanced_security).

### Stale Read

> Stale Read is a mechanism that TiDB applies to read historical versions of data stored in TiDB. Using this mechanism, you can read the corresponding historical data of a specific point in time or within a specified time range, and thus save the latency brought by data replication between storage nodes. When you are using Stale Read, TiDB will randomly select a replica for data reading, which means that all replicas are available for data reading.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Stale Read is a mechanism that TiDB applies to read historical versions of data stored in TiDB. Using this mechanism, you can read the corresponding historical data of a specific point in time or within a specified time range, and thus save the latency brought by data replication between storage nodes. When you use Stale Read, TiDB randomly selects a replica for data reading, which means that all replicas are available for data reading.
```

## T

### Temporary table

> Temporary tables solve the issue of temporarily storing the intermediate results of an application, which frees you from frequently creating and dropping tables. You can store the intermediate calculation data in temporary tables. When the intermediate data is no longer needed, TiDB automatically cleans up and recycles the temporary tables. This avoids user applications being too complicated, reduces table management overhead, and improves performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporary tables enable you to store intermediate calculation results temporarily, eliminating the need to create and drop tables repeatedly. Once the data is no longer needed, TiDB automatically cleans up and recycles the temporary tables. This feature simplifies application logic, reduces table management overhead, and improves performance.
```

For more information, see [Temporary Tables](/temporary-tables.md).

### TiCDC

> [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool for incrementally replicating data in TiDB. It pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV and parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

Reviewer 3: I would suggest expanding this a bit, something like:

> [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool for incrementally replicating data from TiDB to other downstream targets. These downstream targets may include other TiDB instances, MySQL compatible databases, object storage locations, and streaming processors (like Kafka and Pulsar). TiCDC pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV, parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

> [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool for incrementally replicating data in TiDB. It pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV and parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool that enables incremental data replication from TiDB to various downstream targets. These downstream targets can include other TiDB instances, MySQL-compatible databases, object storage locations, and streaming processors (such as Kafka and Pulsar). TiCDC pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV, parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).
```

## T

### Temporary table

Temporary tables enable you to store intermediate calculation results temporarily, eliminating the need to create and drop tables repeatedly. Once the data is no longer needed, TiDB automatically cleans up and recycles the temporary tables. This feature simplifies application logic, reduces table management overhead, and improves performance.

For more information, see [Temporary Tables](/temporary-tables.md).

### TiCDC

> [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool that enables incremental data replication from TiDB to various downstream targets. These downstream targets can include other TiDB instances, MySQL-compatible databases, object storage locations, and streaming processors (such as Kafka and Pulsar). TiCDC pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV, parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool that enables incremental data replication from TiDB to various downstream targets. These downstream targets can include other TiDB instances, MySQL-compatible databases, storage services, and streaming processors (such as Kafka and Pulsar). TiCDC pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV, parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).
```

### TiFlash

[TiFlash](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md) is a key component of TiDB's HTAP architecture. It is a columnar extension of TiKV that provides both strong consistency and good isolation. TiFlash maintains columnar replicas by asynchronously replicating data from TiKV using the **Raft Learner protocol**. For reads, it leverages the **Raft consensus index** and **MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control)** to achieve **Snapshot Isolation** consistency.This architecture effectively addresses isolation and synchronization challenges in HTAP workloads, enabling efficient analytical queries while maintaining real-time data consistency.

### Timestamp Oracle (TSO)

Because TiKV is a distributed storage system, it requires a global timing service, Timestamp Oracle (TSO), to assign a monotonically increasing timestamp. In TiKV, such a feature is provided by PD, and in Google [Spanner](http://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//archive/spanner-osdi2012.pdf), this feature is provided by multiple atomic clocks and GPS. For more information, see [TSO](/tso.md).

### TiUP

> [TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md) is a management tool used for deploying, upgrading, and managing TiDB clusters, as well as managing various components within the TiDB ecosystem including TiDB, PD, and TiKV. With TiUP, you can easily run any component within TiDB by executing a single command, greatly simplifying the management process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md) is a management tool used for deploying, upgrading, and managing TiDB clusters, as well as managing various components within the TiDB cluster including TiDB, PD, and TiKV. With TiUP, you can easily run any component within TiDB by executing a single command, greatly simplifying the management process.
```

For more information, see [Temporary Tables](/temporary-tables.md).

### TiCDC

[TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) is a tool that enables incremental data replication from TiDB to various downstream targets. These downstream targets can include other TiDB instances, MySQL-compatible databases, storage services, and streaming processors (such as Kafka and Pulsar). TiCDC pulls the data change logs from the upstream TiKV, parses them into ordered row-level change data, and then outputs the data to the downstream. For more information about the concepts and terms of TiCDC, see [TiCDC Glossary](/ticdc/ticdc-glossary.md).

### TiDB Lightning

[TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) is a tool for importing Terabyte-level data from static files into TiDB clusters. It is commonly used for the initial data import into TiDB clusters.

For more information on the concepts and terminology of TiDB Lightning, see [TiDB Lightning Glossary](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md).

### TiFlash

> [TiFlash](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md) is a key component of TiDB's HTAP architecture. It is a columnar extension of TiKV that provides both strong consistency and good isolation. TiFlash maintains columnar replicas by asynchronously replicating data from TiKV using the **Raft Learner protocol**. For reads, it leverages the **Raft consensus index** and **MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control)** to achieve **Snapshot Isolation** consistency.This architecture effectively addresses isolation and synchronization challenges in HTAP workloads, enabling efficient analytical queries while maintaining real-time data consistency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[TiFlash](/tiflash/tiflash-overview.md) is a key component of TiDB's HTAP architecture. It is a columnar extension of TiKV that provides both strong consistency and good isolation. TiFlash maintains columnar replicas by asynchronously replicating data from TiKV using the **Raft Learner protocol**. For reads, it leverages the **Raft consensus index** and **MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control)** to achieve **Snapshot Isolation** consistency. This architecture effectively addresses isolation and synchronization challenges in HTAP workloads, enabling efficient analytical queries while maintaining real-time data consistency.
```
